[OSDOCS-3502] Shiftstack external CCM GA (#52520)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-openstack-external-ccm.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// tbd
// TODO: GitHub link clearance.

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-openstack-external-ccm_{context}"]
= The {rh-openstack} Cloud Controller Manager (CCM)

In {product-title} 4.12, clusters that run on {rh-openstack-first} are switched from the legacy {rh-openstack} cloud provider to the external link:https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack[OpenStack CCM]. This change follows the move in Kubernetes from in-tree, legacy cloud providers to external cloud providers that are implemented by using the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/[Cloud Controller Manager].

To preserve user-defined configurations for the legacy cloud provider, existing configurations are mapped to new ones as part of the migration process. It searches for configurations in the following places:

> * `kube-cloud-config` in the `openshift-config-managed` namespace

Reviewer: @stephenfin does CCM look for configurations in this config to transform them or only the one on openshift-config namespace?

Reviewer: I checked in the code, for OpenStack it seems to using only `cloud-provider-config` in the `openshift-config` namespace
https://github.com/openshift/cluster-cloud-controller-manager-operator/blob/master/pkg/controllers/cloud_config_sync_controller.go#L82-L123

* `cloud-provider-config` in the `openshift-config` namespace

> Configurations that are found are synchronized to the `cloud-conf` config map in the `openshift-cloud-controller-manager` namespace.

Reviewer 2: Again, `openshift-cloud-controller-manager` is merely a default. You can change this by passing the `--namespace` flag to the operator binary, as seen [here](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-cloud-controller-manager-operator/blob/0acfa2d24deb6a03abce343608cfc6154650fd52/cmd/cluster-cloud-controller-manager-operator/main.go#L85-L89). I don't know if anyone can override this and [the default manifests do not](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-cloud-controller-manager-operator/blob/0acfa2d24deb6a03abce343608cfc6154650fd52/manifests/0000_26_cloud-controller-manager-operator_11_deployment.yaml#L41-L49).

As part of this synchronization, the OpenStack CCM Operator alters the new config map such that its properties are compatible with the external cloud provider. The file is changed in the following ways:

* The `[Global] secret-name`, `[Global] secret-namespace`, and `[Global] kubeconfig-path` options are removed. They do not apply to the external cloud provider.

* The `[Global] use-clouds`, `[Global] clouds-file`, and `[Global] cloud` options are added.

> * The entire `[BlockStorage]` section is removed. External cloud providers no longer perform storage operations.

Author: ```suggestion
* The entire `[BlockStorage]` section is removed. External cloud providers no longer perform storage operations. Block storage configuration is managed by the Cinder CSI driver.
```

> * The `[LoadBalancer] use-octavia` and `[LoadBalancer] enabled` options are set or added according to the wider cluster configuration.

Reviewer: use-octavia is always set to True, perhaps there is no need to mention it?

Author: ```suggestion
* The `[LoadBalancer] enabled` option is set or added according to the wider cluster configuration.
```

> * The `[LoadBalancer] enabled` option is set or added according to the wider cluster configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `[LoadBalancer] enabled` option is enforced as False only when the cluster Network Type is Kuryr.
```

Author: ```suggestion
* The `[LoadBalancer] enabled` option is enforced as false only if the cluster network type is Kuryr.
```

//
// tbd
// TODO: GitHub link clearance.

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-openstack-external-ccm_{context}"]
= The {rh-openstack} Cloud Controller Manager (CCM)

In {product-title} 4.12, clusters that run on {rh-openstack-first} are switched from the legacy {rh-openstack} cloud provider to the external link:https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack[OpenStack CCM]. This change follows the move in Kubernetes from in-tree, legacy cloud providers to external cloud providers that are implemented by using the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/[Cloud Controller Manager].

To preserve user-defined configurations for the legacy cloud provider, existing configurations are mapped to new ones as part of the migration process. It searches for a configuration called `cloud-provider-config` in the `openshift-config` namespace.

[NOTE]
====
The config map name `cloud-provider-config` is not statically configured. It is derived from the `spec.cloudConfig.name` value in the `infrastructure/cluster` CRD.
====

Found configurations are synchronized to the `cloud-conf` config map in the `openshift-cloud-controller-manager` namespace.
//QE: Verify

> To synchronize the configuration to a different namespace, you can override the default `openshift-cloud-controller-manager` namespace by passing the name of the namespace with the `--namespace` flag to the operator binary.

Reviewer: I believe the operator will enforce the openshift-cloud-controller-manager since the manifest does not allow setting that, so perhaps is better not to mention.

Author: ```suggestion
// To synchronize the configuration to a different namespace, you can override the default `openshift-cloud-controller-manager` namespace by passing the name of the namespace with the `--namespace` flag to the operator binary.
```

> // To synchronize the configuration to a different namespace, you can override the default `openshift-cloud-controller-manager` namespace by passing the name of the namespace with the `--namespace` flag to the operator binary.

Reviewer 2: I know I suggested this but I'm not sure now if we want to include it here. This doesn't feel likely something we'd ever expect a user to configure. Maybe a UPI deployment would want it, idk...

Author: I'm happy to either keep it in comments or remove it completely. It's not even a person-hour of effort to get it re-included and re-approved if it's needed.

As part of this synchronization, the OpenStack CCM Operator alters the new config map such that its properties are compatible with the external cloud provider. The file is changed in the following ways:

* The `[Global] secret-name`, `[Global] secret-namespace`, and `[Global] kubeconfig-path` options are removed. They do not apply to the external cloud provider.

* The `[Global] use-clouds`, `[Global] clouds-file`, and `[Global] cloud` options are added.

* The entire `[BlockStorage]` section is removed. External cloud providers no longer perform storage operations. Block storage configuration is managed by the Cinder CSI driver.

> * The `[LoadBalancer] enabled` option is set or added according to the wider cluster configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
* The `[LoadBalancer] enabled` option is enforced as false only if the cluster network type is Kuryr.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_openstack/installing-openstack-cloud-config-reference.adoc
// TODO: GitHub link clearance.

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-openstack-external-ccm_{context}"]

> = The {rh-openstack} Cloud Controller Manager

Reviewer 3: Should we remove RH reference from the CCM name as it's not provided/developed by Red Hat exclusively?
```suggestion
= The OpenStack Cloud Controller Manager
```

Author: @eurijon Probably yes, but I'm checking with our CS and DPM about this. I haven't dealt with this aspect of our branding practices before.

> In {product-title} 4.12, clusters that run on {rh-openstack-first} are switched from the legacy {rh-openstack} cloud provider to the external OpenStack Cloud Controller Manager (CCM). This change follows the move in Kubernetes from in-tree, legacy cloud providers to external cloud providers that are implemented by using the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/[Cloud Controller Manager].

Author: ```suggestion
In {product-title} 4.12, clusters that run on {rh-openstack-first} are switched from the legacy OpenStack cloud provider to the external OpenStack Cloud Controller Manager (CCM). This change follows the move in Kubernetes from in-tree, legacy cloud providers to external cloud providers that are implemented by using the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/[Cloud Controller Manager].
```

> In {product-title} 4.12, clusters that run on {rh-openstack-first} are switched from the legacy {rh-openstack} cloud provider to the link:https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack[external Cloud Controller Manager (CCM)]. This change follows the move in Kubernetes from in-tree, legacy cloud providers to external cloud providers that are implemented by using the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/[Cloud Controller Manager].

Author: @sferich888 We would like to include a link to the OpenStack CCM repo in this page. Is this something that we could allow, as there isn't anywhere else to point at the moment, or would the No GitHub Links policy preclude it?

Reviewer 4: I don't see a reasons why a link here needs to be provided; or what purpose or value it serves.

Author: ```suggestion
In {product-title} 4.12, clusters that run on {rh-openstack-first} are switched from the legacy {rh-openstack} cloud provider to the external OpenStack Cloud Controller Manager (CCM). This change follows the move in Kubernetes from in-tree, legacy cloud providers to external cloud providers that are implemented by using the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/[Cloud Controller Manager].
```

> In {product-title} 4.12, clusters that run on {rh-openstack-first} are switched from the legacy {rh-openstack} cloud provider to the link:https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack[external Cloud Controller Manager (CCM)]. This change follows the move in Kubernetes from in-tree, legacy cloud providers to external cloud providers that are implemented by using the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/[Cloud Controller Manager].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In {product-title} 4.12, clusters that run on {rh-openstack-first} are switched from the legacy OpenStack cloud provider to the link:https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack[external Cloud Controller Manager (CCM)]. This change follows the move in Kubernetes from in-tree, legacy cloud providers to external cloud providers that are implemented by using the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/[Cloud Controller Manager].
```

To preserve user-defined configurations for the legacy cloud provider, existing configurations are mapped to new ones as part of the migration process. It searches for a configuration called `cloud-provider-config` in the `openshift-config` namespace.

NOTE: The config map name `cloud-provider-config` is not statically configured. It is derived from the `spec.cloudConfig.name` value in the `infrastructure/cluster` CRD.

Found configurations are synchronized to the `cloud-conf` config map in the `openshift-cloud-controller-manager` namespace.

// To synchronize the configuration to a different namespace, you can override the default `openshift-cloud-controller-manager` namespace by passing the name of the namespace with the `--namespace` flag to the operator binary.

> As part of this synchronization, the {rh-openstack} CCM Operator alters the new config map such that its properties are compatible with the external cloud provider. The file is changed in the following ways:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As part of this synchronization, the OpenStack CCM Operator alters the new config map such that its properties are compatible with the external cloud provider. The file is changed in the following ways:
```

> As part of this synchronization, the {rh-openstack}] CCM Operator alters the new config map such that its properties are compatible with the external cloud provider. The file is changed in the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of this synchronization, the {rh-openstack} CCM Operator alters the new config map such that its properties are compatible with the external cloud provider. The file is changed in the following ways:
```
